Cyber security touches nearly every part of our daily lives. Moreover, economic vitality, and national 
security depend on a stable, safe, and resilient cyberspace.  We rely on this vast array of networks to
communicate and travel, power our homes, run our economy, and provide government services. However, cyber
intrusions and attacks have increased dramatically over the last decade, exposing sensitive personal and
business information, disrupting critical operations, and imposing high costs on the economy. The nation
has a significant shortage of cyber security professionals who can understand and effectively thwart the
growing threats. As a result, education and training in cyber security has become a national priority.
Students are also eager to acquire more knowledge and skills in this critical area.

These are the reasons we started the Cyber Defense Club at Kansas State University. The goal of the Cyber
Defense Club is to teach K-State students the critical knowledge and skills needed to administer and
defend computer networks and systems. As part of the CDC, we are offering two hands-on experience courses.
During the class meetings, CDC members discuss and demonstrate various security topics by focusing on a
number of security and hacking tools. Led by the instructor, students practice using or defending against
those techniques and discuss how to secure services, applications and operating systems. All CDC activities
are performed in an isolated lab network, which is behind a restrictive firewall and consists of both
physical and virtual infrastructures.
In this paper, we present how we set up the lab, teach the courses, and organize the CDC activities.
We hope this information can prove useful for faculty and system administrators who want to set up similar
educational infrastructures in their own institution, and design hands-on courses in cyber security. We
also share our experience of teaching the CDC course and advising CDC activities at K-State, with both
success stories and lessons learned.
